# CS-340-T3703-Client-Server-Development

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

Writing modular programing allows for maintainable, readable and adaptable projects. Modular programming is a software design technique that emphasizes separating the functionality of a program into independent, interchangeable modules, such that each contains everything necessary to execute only one aspect of the desired functionality, allowing for development to be divided by splitting down a program into smaller programs in order to execute a variety of tasks. This enables developers to work simultaneously and minimizes the time taken for development.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

As a computer scientist I approach client's request by fully understanding the project's requirements and breaking the problem down. My approach for the Graioso Salavre's project was different and I was allowed to make some design decisions. 

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

Computer scientists develop software that can process data accurately and at speeds that humans simply cannot achieve manually. They build programs that help people and businesses do their jobs and live their lives easier, computer scientists solve problems. Computers have changed the way the world works and without computers and computer scientists, many things we enjoy daily would not exist, video games would be gone, and simple things like adding up the number of employees for various companies throughout states would take hours instead of seconds, looking at the pandemic we are still navigating, many things would not be possible if it wasn't for the power of remote meetings, and online ordering. Working on a project like the Grazioso Salvare could help companies find what they need fast and with low overhead. In this project, the company had a specific type of dog and age range they wanted for each task. Researching that by hand would take hours with the 10,000 dog records. This project makes that job fast, effective, and expandable. If they added another 10,000 dogs, it would still work. So, the work is done once instead of every time new data is added.
